[![Scottsdale Veterinary
Clinic](https://helvik.s3.amazonaws.com/tsvc/23/logo.webp)](https://scottsdaleveterinaryclinic.com)

  * Services
    * [Emergency Care](https://scottsdaleveterinaryclinic.com/emergency-vet-care/ "Emergency Care")
    * [Veterinary Services](https://scottsdaleveterinaryclinic.com/pet-services/ "Veterinary Services")
    * [Pet Dental](https://scottsdaleveterinaryclinic.com/low-cost-dog-dental-cleaning/ "Pet Dental")
    * [Products](https://scottsdaleveterinaryclinic.com/products/ "Products")
    * [Forms](https://scottsdaleveterinaryclinic.com/pet-forms/ "Forms")
  * Pricing
    * [Health Plans](https://scottsdaleveterinaryclinic.com/affordable-pet-plans/ "Health Plans")
    * [Services](https://scottsdaleveterinaryclinic.com/pricing/ "Services")
    * [Pharmacy](https://scottsdaleveterinaryclinic.com/?page_id=5089 "Pharmacy")
    * [Coupons](https://scottsdaleveterinaryclinic.com/coupons/ "Coupons")
  * About Us
    * [About TSVC](https://scottsdaleveterinaryclinic.com/about/ "About TSVC")
    * [Meet Our Doctors](https://scottsdaleveterinaryclinic.com/meet-our-doctors/ "Meet Our Doctors")
    * [Meet Our Team](https://scottsdaleveterinaryclinic.com/our-team/ "Meet Our Team")
  * TSVC Cares
    * [Pet Education Center](https://scottsdaleveterinaryclinic.com/pet-education/ "Pet Education Center")
    * [Remembering Your Pets](https://scottsdaleveterinaryclinic.com/remembering-your-pets/ "Remembering Your Pets")
    * [Donate to Angel Fund](https://scottsdaleveterinaryclinic.com/angel-fund/ "Donate to Angel Fund")
  * [Careers](https://scottsdaleveterinaryclinic.com/joinourteam/ "Careers")
  * [Blog](https://scottsdaleveterinaryclinic.com/pet-education/ "Blog")

[Request Appointment](https://scottsdaleveterinaryclinic.com/schedule-
appointment/) Contact __

![Scottsdale Veterinary
Clinic](data:image/svg+xml,%3Csvg%20xmlns='http://www.w3.org/2000/svg'%20width='0'%20height='0'%20viewBox='0%200%200%200'%3E%3C/svg%3E)![Scottsdale
Veterinary Clinic](https://helvik.s3.amazonaws.com/tsvc/23/logo.png)

[Request Appointment](https://scottsdaleveterinaryclinic.com/schedule-
appointment/) Contact

  * Services
    * [Emergency Care](https://scottsdaleveterinaryclinic.com/emergency-vet-care/ "Emergency Care")
    * [Veterinary Services](https://scottsdaleveterinaryclinic.com/pet-services/ "Veterinary Services")
    * [Pet Dental](https://scottsdaleveterinaryclinic.com/low-cost-dog-dental-cleaning/ "Pet Dental")
    * [Products](https://scottsdaleveterinaryclinic.com/products/ "Products")
    * [Forms](https://scottsdaleveterinaryclinic.com/pet-forms/ "Forms")
  * Pricing
    * [Health Plans](https://scottsdaleveterinaryclinic.com/affordable-pet-plans/ "Health Plans")
    * [Services](https://scottsdaleveterinaryclinic.com/pricing/ "Services")
    * [Pharmacy](https://scottsdaleveterinaryclinic.com/?page_id=5089 "Pharmacy")
    * [Coupons](https://scottsdaleveterinaryclinic.com/coupons/ "Coupons")
  * About Us
    * [About TSVC](https://scottsdaleveterinaryclinic.com/about/ "About TSVC")
    * [Meet Our Doctors](https://scottsdaleveterinaryclinic.com/meet-our-doctors/ "Meet Our Doctors")
    * [Meet Our Team](https://scottsdaleveterinaryclinic.com/our-team/ "Meet Our Team")
  * TSVC Cares
    * [Pet Education Center](https://scottsdaleveterinaryclinic.com/pet-education/ "Pet Education Center")
    * [Remembering Your Pets](https://scottsdaleveterinaryclinic.com/remembering-your-pets/ "Remembering Your Pets")
    * [Donate to Angel Fund](https://scottsdaleveterinaryclinic.com/angel-fund/ "Donate to Angel Fund")
  * [Careers](https://scottsdaleveterinaryclinic.com/joinourteam/ "Careers")
  * [Blog](https://scottsdaleveterinaryclinic.com/pet-education/ "Blog")

Close Menu

# Veterinary Services

If your pet is experiencing a medical emergency or you need immediate
assistance, please call us at (480) 945-8484.

[Request Appointment](https://scottsdaleveterinaryclinic.com/schedule-
appointment/) Contact Us

NOW OFFERING: 3D High Definition CT Scanning!

No matter what species your pet may be, they have access to comprehensive
health care at The Scottsdale Veterinary Clinic - from General Practice to
Specialty Care and Emergency Care and Surgery.

Acupuncture

Acupuncture therapy is safe and effective for many medical conditions. It has
been used to treat arthritis, kidney disease, anal gland disease, and many
other conditions.

Allergies

Using a combination of eastern, western, and holistic therapy we can more
effectively treat your pet’s allergy conditions.  
Arthritis, Lameness, Limping, Pain – Our therapies for arthritis pain have
helped thousands of pets and continue to improve the quality of their life.
Each individual pet has different types and severity of arthritis. We work to
create an arthritis care plan that is customized to YOUR pet, which aids in
their optimal performance and long term health.

Avian Medicine & Surgery

If you have a sick bird, this is the place for their health care. We love bird
medicine and work on a large variety of avian medical conditions and
therapies. We treat many types of avian species, but commonly see cockatiels,
budgies, macaws, conures, eclectus, amazon, ducks, and chickens.

Chiropractic

Chiropractic therapy can assist in many conditions and is especially
beneficial with back and neck conditions.

Cold Laser Therapy

These treatments help to stimulate stem cells to re-activate and continue the
healing process. This also appears to aid in blood flow and reduce muscle
spasms in the area and can be extremely beneficial for arthritis, healing and
acute or chronic injuries.

Dental

If your pet is plagued by bad breath, this is often related to dental disease.
Our doctors are excellent at performing dental cleanings and discussing
preventative dental care. Call today for a quote on having your pet’s teeth
cleaned!

Ear Infections

Our doctors are very experienced in diagnosing and treating these common
conditions.  
Flea and Tick Prevention – We offer the latest in flea and tick protection at
competitive, affordable pricing!

Emergency Medicine

We are open 24/7, 365 days a year INCLUDING ALL HOLIDAYS! We are available for
all of your emergency needs and welcome work-in exams anytime. It is
recommended that you call ahead to let us know you are coming.

*NEW* High Definition 3D CT Scanning – The addition of the Vimago CT scanner to our hospital has allowed for an even wider variety of diagnostic abilities to offer our clients! The Vimago also offers the ability for us to perform fluoroscopy and soft tissue contrast! CT Scanning combines a series of x-ray images taken from many different angles and uses computer processing to create cross-sectional images, or slices, of the bones, blood vessels and soft tissues inside the body. CT scan images provide much more detailed information than traditional x-ray or ultrasound.

Endoscopy Services

We have now added an Endoscope to our hospital! We hope this will provide a
less invasive option than surgery for our patients in many cases. We can
perform Cystoscopy (female dogs only), Laparoscopic Assisted Cystotomy, Upper
and Lower Gastrointestinal Endoscopy, Endoscopic Foreign Body Retrieval (Upper
GI) and Rhinoscopy. Dr. Fonza and Dr. Calugcugan are available for these
services. Please contact our office for a consult and to schedule!

Exotic Pets

Many of our doctors have a special interest in birds, parrots, chickens,
ducks, rabbits, ferrets, rats, mice, hamsters, guinea pigs, as well as many
other exotic animals. We even offer exotic animal surgery!

Ferret Medicine & Surgery

We have a special interest in working with adrenal disease, adrenal cancer,
lymphoma, insulinomas, low blood sugar and dental disease that can commonly
affect ferrets and are dedicated to educating our clients on the best care and
treatment available.

Food & Medication Delivery

For $15, we offer delivery of your food and medication refills to your home,
for our current clients within 8 miles of our practice! We recommend that you
provide us at least 5 days advance notice before you run out of food or
prescriptions to allow adequate shipping time before you need it. Please call
us to arrange delivery!

Fractures & Bone Surgery

We offer multiple options to repair bone injuries (including Cruciate Ligament
Tears!) from splinting or casting and cold-laser therapy, to surgical repair.
In the event a surgical repair falls outside of our doctors’ expertise, we can
assist you in the proper referral to the best orthopedic surgeons available.

Heart Conditions

Our heart therapy recommendations focus on the whole health of your pet. Our
recommended care options can help your pet to lead a longer and happier life,
with our multi-modal treatments.

Herbal Medicine

These therapies have been around for thousands of years and many times can
dramatically help with current therapies. Our doctors are open minded and
educated on other treatment options that can help your pet!

Humane Pet Euthanasia

Saying goodbye to our furry loved ones is one of the hardest parts of being a
pet parent, and we will do everything we can to help you through this process.
Relieving our dog, cat, or exotic pet from pain and suffering is the most
common reason that most owners elect to euthanize a beloved friend. Pain and
suffering could be related to chronic, incurable diseases like cancer, renal
disease and heart failure. It is normal for owners to elect to make the choice
that they feel is kindest for their terminally ill pets. Euthanasia is
performed by a veterinarian, and done for reasons such as humane relief of
suffering. The decision to put your pet down is typically made when the animal
is starting to suffer as a result of the condition and when drugs can no
longer bring enough pain relief, or due to owner’s financial limitations to
provide care for life threatening illnesses that may cause suffering.
Excessive vomiting, diarrhea, intestinal pain, severe arthritis, tumors or
cancer can all lead to these painful symptoms and complete body failure. In
these cases, it is much kinder to put the pet to sleep and end their pain.
During the euthanasia process, your pet would be injected with a chemical that
when it enters the blood stream it stops the function of both the heart and
the brain, which causes instant loss of consciousness and pain sensations.
This is where the term “put to sleep” comes from as the animal falls into a
deep sleep and the heart stops beating, allowing the pet to pass without
experiencing pain. We offer communal cremation where your pet’s remains would
be spread on a farm up north, or we also have an individual cremation option
for you to have your pet’s ashes returned to you in a cedar wood urn.

Hyperbaric Oxygen Therapy

A medical treatment useful in a variety of clinical situations. The patient is
placed safely and comfortably in a large chamber. 100% oxygen flows into the
chamber under pressures 1.5 to 3 times that of normal atmospheric pressure.
Treatments may last from 1 to 2 hours and are given 1 to 3 times daily, with
at least 4 hours between sessions. Most patients require no sedation and
appear calm and relaxed during HBOT treatment sessions. The total number of
HBOT treatments necessary will vary according to the type of disease and/or
patient response.

In Home Pet Euthanasia

In Home Pet Euthanasia – Most pets have difficulty getting around in their old
age, so it can be quite troublesome to get them in the car and bring them into
the veterinarian. Many pet owners may want the privacy and comfort of being in
their own home when making this decision. Sometimes pet parents are too upset
to drive, and having us come to their home eliminates many of these concerns.
Our veterinarians offer this service to come to you and your pet at home, in
hopes this will help you and your family during these sensitive moments. We
hope that you and your family will be more relaxed in the privacy of your own
home, and we strive to ensure our visit to your home goes as peacefully as
possible for your family. Don’t hesitate to call us today at 480-945-8484 for
any questions regarding your decision to say farewell to your furry loved one.
We are here for you every step of the way, and offer this service to our
clients who live within 8 miles of our practice. If you are further than 8
miles, please still call us as we may be able to accommodate you as well.
Please see www.fidosfarewell.com for pricing and more information about our
in-home euthanasia services for your dog or cat.

Lameness & Limping

Many times this symptom is related to other conditions other than arthritis.
Our doctors will work hard to look for these conditions!

Pet Transport Service

From home to hospital, or hospital to home, we can pick up and drop off your
pets for you for their veterinary services for just $15 per trip! We do
require that you are at home at the time we are picking up or dropping off
your dog or cat. Please call to schedule ahead!

Radiography

We offer some of the best in mainstream digital radiography for your pet’s
needs! From diagnosing fractures and bone lesions to abdominal, heart or lung
abnormalities and more, our radiography services are available 24/7! We also
offer consultations with certified radiologists when necessary!

Rabbit Medicine & Surgery

If your bunny needs care, we can help. Our doctors are experienced to perform
rabbit dentistry, treat ear mites, perform spay and neuter procedures, treat
skin diseases, and many other rabbit health issues.

Rodent & Small Mammals

We see a large number of small exotics every day in our practice and are
experienced to diagnose and treat many of the diseases and conditions that can
present.

Skin Conditions

Our Veterinarians are knowledgeable and experienced in diagnosing and treating
all of these conditions Rash, Bumps, Itching, Mites, Fleas, Ticks, Tumors,
Ringworm, Skin Infections & more.

Vaccinations

Our vaccines are available in addition to a scheduled exam or walk-in exam. We
offer scheduled appointments Monday through Friday from 8am-8pm. We also offer
walk-in exams from 6am-6pm every day of the week. Emergency exams are
available from 6pm-6am every night. We accommodate work-in and emergency exams
ANYTIME, 24/7! For your convenience, we also offer Drop Off/Day Admission
exams 7 days a week from 8am-8pm, so you can drop off your pet on your way to
work and pick them up on the way home! Please call us at 480-945-8484 to speak
with our team about all scheduling needs, or see our pricing page for
information on exam and vaccine costs!

Valley Fever

All of our Veterinarians are experienced in treating all types of valley
fever- lung, bone, skin, neurological, disseminated, etc. We also have some of
the lowest pricing in town on Fluconazole- the most commonly used treatment
for valley fever.

####  __We are here to help 24/7

Contact Us __

### Save Money with our Annual Health Plans

[View Plans __](https://scottsdaleveterinaryclinic.com/affordable-pet-plans/)

### Veterinary done _right_

The Scottsdale Veterinary Clinic knows that every great pet deserves a great
vet.

[Book Appointment](https://scottsdaleveterinaryclinic.com/schedule-
appointment/) Contact Us

* * *

  * Services
    * [Emergency Care](https://scottsdaleveterinaryclinic.com/emergency-vet-care/ "Emergency Care")
    * [Veterinary Services](https://scottsdaleveterinaryclinic.com/pet-services/ "Veterinary Services")
    * [Pet Dental](https://scottsdaleveterinaryclinic.com/low-cost-dog-dental-cleaning/ "Pet Dental")
    * [Products](https://scottsdaleveterinaryclinic.com/products/ "Products")
    * [Forms](https://scottsdaleveterinaryclinic.com/pet-forms/ "Forms")
  * Pricing
    * [Health Plans](https://scottsdaleveterinaryclinic.com/affordable-pet-plans/ "Health Plans")
    * [Services](https://scottsdaleveterinaryclinic.com/pricing/ "Services")
    * [Pharmacy](https://scottsdaleveterinaryclinic.com/?page_id=5089 "Pharmacy")
    * [Coupons](https://scottsdaleveterinaryclinic.com/coupons/ "Coupons")
  * About Us
    * [About TSVC](https://scottsdaleveterinaryclinic.com/about/ "About TSVC")
    * [Meet Our Doctors](https://scottsdaleveterinaryclinic.com/meet-our-doctors/ "Meet Our Doctors")
    * [Meet Our Team](https://scottsdaleveterinaryclinic.com/our-team/ "Meet Our Team")
  * TSVC Cares
    * [Pet Education Center](https://scottsdaleveterinaryclinic.com/pet-education/ "Pet Education Center")
    * [Remembering Your Pets](https://scottsdaleveterinaryclinic.com/remembering-your-pets/ "Remembering Your Pets")
    * [Donate to Angel Fund](https://scottsdaleveterinaryclinic.com/angel-fund/ "Donate to Angel Fund")
  * [Careers](https://scottsdaleveterinaryclinic.com/joinourteam/ "Careers")
  * [Blog](https://scottsdaleveterinaryclinic.com/pet-education/ "Blog")

* * *

  * [__](\[facebook\] "Facebook")
  * [__](\[instagram\] "Instagram")
  * [__](\[twitter\] "X")
  * [__](\[yelp\] "Yelp")

(C) 2023 All Rights Reserved / [Privacy
Policy](https://scottsdaleveterinaryclinic.com/privacy-policy/) / [Terms of
Use](https://scottsdaleveterinaryclinic.com/terms-of-use/) / Built by
[8blocks](https://8blocks.com)

X

### TSVC Support Center

Open 24 hours everyday to better serve you and your pet.

[__(480) 945-8484](tel:480-945-8484)

[__Request Appointment](https://scottsdaleveterinaryclinic.com/schedule-
appointment/)

[
__Directions](https://www.google.com/maps/place/The+Scottsdale+Veterinary+Clinic/@33.480147,-111.9235111,17z/data=!4m15!1m8!3m7!1s0x872b0bdc8eb9e251:0x9ed4834b86bd162a!2s7311+E+Thomas+Rd,+Scottsdale,+AZ+85257!3b1!8m2!3d33.480147!4d-111.9235111!16s%2Fg%2F11bw4hrs3s!3m5!1s0x872b0bdcee376107:0xcdccf66cf49ac808!8m2!3d33.4800906!4d-111.9232301!16s%2Fg%2F1vfzfmvk?entry=ttu)

[__Email Us](mailto:scottsdalevetclinic@gmail.com)

### Resources

#### Sanctuaries

Found an orphaned, injured or sick wild animal?

  * [Liberty Wildlife](http://www.libertywildlife.org/)
  * 11825 N. 70th St.
  * Scottsdale, AZ 85254
  * 480-998-5550

  * [Southwest Wildlife](http://www.southwestwildlife.org/)
  * 27026 N. 156th St.
  * Scottsdale, AZ. 85262
  * 480-471-9109

  * For The Birds Wildlife Rescue
  * 4335 E. McDonald Dr.
  * Phoenix, AZ. 85018
  * 602-995-5495

#### Pet Rescues

This is a list of rescues that we support and help.

  * [Any Rat Rescue](http://www.anyratrescue.org/)
  * 480-663-3338

  * [Ohana Animal Rescue](http://www.ohanaanimalrescue.org/)
  * 480-744-5729

  * [Circle L Ranch](http://www.circlel.org/)
  * 480-948-2795

  * [Lucky Dog Rescue](http://www.luckydogrescue.org/)
  * 480-704-4628

  * [Piggie Poo Rescue](http://www.piggiepoo.org/)
  * 623-551-2798

  * [Valley Dogs Rescue](http://www.valleydogs.org/)
  * 480-898-3647

  * [4 the Love of German Shepherd Rescue](http://members.petfinder.org/~AZ390/index.html)
  * 480-488-0028

#### Dog Parks

Several dog-friendly parks and restaurants in the area.

  * [O.H.S.O. Eatery](http://ohsobrewery.com/distillery/home.html)
  * 4900 E Indian School Rd.
  * Scottsdale, AZ, US 85018

  * [Park Place Bar & Grill](http://www.parkplacebarandgrill.com/)
  * 7373 E Scottsdale Mall
  * Scottsdale, AZ, US 85251

  * [Randy’s Restaurant & Ice Cream](http://www.randysrestaurantaz.com/)
  * 7904 East Chaparral Rd
  * Scottsdale, AZ, US 85250

  * [AZ 88](http://www.az88.com/Home.html)
  * 7353 E Scottsdale Mall
  * Scottsdale, AZ, US 85251

  * Chaparral Park
  * 5401 N Hayden Rd
  * Scottsdale, AZ, US 85250

  * Horizon Dog Park
  * 15444 N. 100th St.
  * Scottsdale, AZ 85260

  * Vista del Camino Dog Park
  * 7700 E. Roosevelt St.
  * Scottsdale, AZ 85257

#### Payment Help

If you are in need of a payment plan or financial assistance with your pet’s
medical care you may contact some of the following resources for assistance.
We offer payments plans with no interest financing for 6 months through Care
Credit.

  * [Care Credit](http://www.carecredit.com)

  * [Help-A-Pet](https://www.help-a-pet.org/)

  * [Animal Friend's Rescue](https://www.animalfriendsrescue.org/)

  * [Humane Society](https://www.humanesociety.org/)

